Not entirely clear what kind of examples are expected here, so I'm just guessing.

Input Metrics
The input metric is used to measure the player's actual interaction with the game through devices. There are dozens of things that can be measured and factored into game design for specific input modes. Everything from the number of buttons on a controller, the distance between those buttons, the shape and texture of those buttons, all aspects of an input device contribute to the game's feel. Additionally, the number of states of each individual element of the input device also contribute to how the input is used and measured.
I think the most visceral example of how input changes game feel is in ported and emulated arcade games. Older arcade cabinets overwhelmingly used 4-way sticks, later cabinets advanced to 8-way sticks. Playing a classic 4-way arcade game using a modern controller's analog stick feels wrong and bad. Analog input has more degrees of freedom, but that also makes it more difficult to precisely input the 4 options that the game is expecting and interpreting. If your analog stick is at (1.0, 1.0), how does the 4-way stick emulation interpret that? The game can't interpret both [Up] and [Right] at the same, so your input has to get clamped to one of the available options.

Response Metrics
The response metric is used to measure how the player's interaction with the game affects the game's world and player avatar. Response covers everything from how quickly the game responds to player input, to how quickly the game returns to it's idle state after the player releases the input, to if and when the game responds to sustained input versus an impulse. Response is one of the most measurable and most relevant metrics for real-time games, as it is both controlled by the designer and contributes constantly to the game's feel.
One example of response metrics that everyone can relate to are ice levels in video games. Controls that are quick and responsive in normal gameplay suddenly become frustratingly sluggish and hard to manage. As you hold down a direction the avatar gains speed slowly, then once you release the direction control the avatar slowly decelerates. This change in response makes the player feel like their avatar is moving on a slippery surface, even without the added context of an ice shader applied to the ground.

Context Metrics
The context metric is used to measure how the simulated space, physics, and level design affect the player's interaction with the game. Everything about the game's world affect the context of the game feel from the distance between objects, to the pattern those objects are laid out in, to the avatar's physical interaction with those objects.
Super Monkey Ball's context must have been a heavily-measured metric during development. The pattern on the ground uses a uniform grid pattern to give the player the context of how fast their avatar is moving. The size of platforms and their arrangement directly correlates to how difficult the game is and how 'fair' the levels feel.

Polish Metrics
The polish metric is used to measure how the art, audio, and other elements affect the feeling of the player's interaction with the game. Characters with larger sprites/models seem heavier, more bulky, and slower than those with smaller sprite/models. Particle effects can make the player feel as if their avatar is moving faster or slower than it is. Sound effects can make a collision between objects in the game's world feel gentle or weighty depending on the audio used. Polish gives the player additional information about how the objects and surfaces in the game's simulated world are constructed and how they feel.

Metaphor Metrics
The metaphor metric is used to measure how assumptions, real-world knowledge, and past history affect the player's expectations for a game's world and controls. Metaphor is a double-edged sword in game design: If a game's design relies too much on prior knowledge of a genre it can highly alienate potential audiences, and if a game's design is too dumbed down it can fail to appeal to fans of the genre.
It's hard to find a game that doesn't heavily rely on metaphor to inform players' expectations. Racing games rely on players understanding that cars go fast and are harder to steer when moving faster. Shooters rely on players understanding that guns need to reload eventually.

Rules Metrics
The rule metric is used to measure how a game's core rules, systems, and goals affect the player's experience and the feel of the game. Much like polish is any non-mechanical element that accentuates the gameplay, rules are the mechanical elements that accentuate the gameplay. Everything outside of the actual 'play' of the game is part of the rules; the health system, levels and experience, quests, etc.
One example of where rules metrics really affect game feel is in survival horror games like Resident Evil or Silent Hill. These feel of these games changes starkly when the player has weapons and ammo available, going from a game focused on stealth and evasion to a game where you can defend yourself.